# Git 101

### Colton Myers, DMa Security Services

# Prerequisites

* `git` on the command line
  * `git-bash`, installed with git for Windows
* Access to `git.corp.adobe.com`

---

# Git 101

### Colton Myers, DMa Security Services

---

# Prerequisites

* `git` on the command line
  * `git-bash`, installed with git for Windows
* Access to `git.corp.adobe.com`

---

What is git?

---

git is distributed version control

---

git is the common language of open source software

---

git is Github

---

Distributed version control allows for anonymous, asynchronous open source
collaboration.

---

Github made Pull Requests easy.

---

# Vocabulary

---

## Repo/Repository

Any instance of a git repository. Could be remote, or local on your
workstation. Generally refers to the remote repository.

---

## Clone

Local copy of a repository, which is cloned from a remote repository.

---

## Fork

Remote copy of a remote repository. You might not have push access to a remote
repository, so you create a copy of it that you control. This is your fork.

---

## Remote

Different destination repositories which have been configured for interaction
on a local clone. Common naming examples: `origin` or `upstream`

---

## origin

The default name for the original clone location or primary remote repository.
Usually will be configured to point at your fork.

## upstream

The standard name for the remote that points to the remote repository from
which you forked.

origin would be basepi/hubble  
upstream would be hubblestack/hubble
