git101/git101.md, before:

# Git 101

Colton Myers, DMa Security Services

---

# Prerequisites

* `git` on the command line
  * `git-bash`, installed with git for Windows
* Access to `git.corp.adobe.com`
* ssh key added to `git.corp.adobe.com`

---

What is git?

---

git is distributed version control

---

git is the common language of open source software

---

git is Github

---

Distributed version control allows for anonymous, asynchronous open source
collaboration.

---

Github made Pull Requests easy.

---

# Vocabulary

---

## Repo/Repository

Any instance of a git repository. Could be remote, or local on your
workstation. Generally refers to the remote repository.

---

## Clone

Local copy of a repository, which is cloned from a remote repository.

---

## Fork

Remote copy of a remote repository. You might not have push access to a remote
repository, so you create a copy of it that you control. This is your fork.

---

## Remote

Different destination repositories which have been configured for interaction
on a local clone. Common naming examples: `origin` or `upstream`

---

## origin

The default name for the original clone location or primary remote repository.
Usually will be configured to point at your fork.

## upstream

The standard name for the remote that points to the remote repository from
which you forked.

* `origin` would be `basepi/hubble`
* `upstream` would be `hubblestack/hubble`

---

## branch

Pointer to a specific commit in the tree

---

## tree

![Tree](images/git-tree.png)

---

## commit

A git object with a content diff, hash, timestamp, and parent commit (two
parent commits if it's a merge commit)

---

# Let's fork a repo

https://git.corp.adobe.com/cmyers/git-training

Notes:

- Fork the repo
- Clone the repo
- Add origin/upstream
- git remote -v

---

# Why is this important?

---

You might not control the repository

---

Even if you do, you want to keep upstream clean

---

`push -f`

and

`rebase`

to your heart's content!

---

# Let's talk about getting work done

---

*Every* change should have its own, new, clean branch

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout -b mycoolfeature upstream/master
```

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout -b mycoolfeature upstream/master
```

short for

```bash
git fetch upstream
git branch mycoolfeature upstream/master
git checkout mycoolfeature
```

---

(yes, there are other ways you can do this cleanly)

↓

--

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
git push origin master
git checkout -b mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git reset --hard upstream/master
git push origin master
git checkout -b mycoolfeature
```

--

Easy, clean, "fool proof"

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout -b mycoolfeature upstream/master
```

---

Once you have your branch, you need to do some work.

---

Committing is (technically) a two-step process

---

# Staging

Changes which have been added to git and are ready to commit

---

```bash
git status
```

---

```bash
git add
```

---

```bash
git reset
```

---

```bash
git add
```

---

# .gitignore

---

# Bonus

```bash
git add -p
```

---

```bash
git commit -v
```

---

```bash
git commit -a -v
```

---

```bash
git commit -a -m <message>
```

↓

--

Get in the habit of avoiding `-m`, it will make your commit messages better

--

```bash
export EDITOR=vim
```

--

`-v` is your friend!

---

# The anatomy of a git commit message

---

```
This is an executive summary (<52 characters)

You can put more information down here
It can be as long or as short as needed.
You can put references to issues, documentation, etc.
Write paragraphs! Poetry! Short novels!
```

---

---

# Pushing your work

---

```bash
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

---

Always specify remote and branch!

Don't rely on your tracking branches being set up correctly.

---

# Opening a PR

---

# Reviewing a PR

---

You can set up protected branches to force PRs and reviews

---

# Conflicts!

---

Rebase is (sometimes) your friend

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
git push -f origin mycoolfeature  # Dangerous!
```

---

Merges are fine too. (Unless they're not)

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
# Resolve conflicts
# Commit resolution
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

Note that you don't have to use `-f` if you merge, which is an advantage

---

# Bonus Stuff

--

```
git rebase -i
```

--

Deleting branches

--

```bash
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git push origin mycoolfeature:mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git push origin :mycoolfeature
git branch -d mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git branch -D mycoolfeature  # Dangerous!
```

--

# reflog

---

# Questions?

Colton Myers (@cmyers, [@basepi](https://github.com/basepi))

https://github.com/basepi/dotfiles

https://git-scm.com/book

---

# The End

Colton Myers (@cmyers, [@basepi](https://github.com/basepi))

https://github.com/basepi/dotfiles

https://git-scm.com/book

Commit message:

Add verbage and more commit message info

git101/git101.md, after:

# Git 101

Colton Myers, DMa Security Services

---

# Prerequisites

* `git` on the command line
  * `git-bash`, installed with git for Windows
* Access to `git.corp.adobe.com`
* ssh key added to `git.corp.adobe.com`

---

What is git?

---

git is distributed version control

---

git is the common language of open source software

---

git is Github

---

Distributed version control allows for anonymous, asynchronous open source
collaboration.

---

Github made Pull Requests easy.

---

# Vocabulary

---

## Repo/Repository

Any instance of a git repository. Could be remote, or local on your
workstation. Generally refers to the remote repository.

---

## Clone

Local copy of a repository, which is cloned from a remote repository.

---

## Fork

Remote copy of a remote repository. You might not have push access to a remote
repository, so you create a copy of it that you control. This is your fork.

---

## Remote

Different destination repositories which have been configured for interaction
on a local clone. Common naming examples: `origin` or `upstream`

---

## origin

The default name for the original clone location or primary remote repository.
Usually will be configured to point at your fork.

## upstream

The standard name for the remote that points to the remote repository from
which you forked.

* `origin` would be `basepi/hubble`
* `upstream` would be `hubblestack/hubble`

---

## branch

Pointer to a specific commit in the tree

---

## tree

![Tree](images/git-tree.png)

---

## commit

A git object with a content diff, hash, timestamp, and parent commit (two
parent commits if it's a merge commit)

---

# Let's fork a repo

https://git.corp.adobe.com/cmyers/git-training

Notes:

- Fork the repo
- Clone the repo
- Add origin/upstream
- git remote -v

---

# Why is this important?

---

You might not control the repository

---

Even if you do, you want to keep upstream clean

---

`push -f`

and

`rebase`

to your heart's content!

---

# Let's talk about getting work done

---

*Every* change should have its own, new, clean branch

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout -b mycoolfeature upstream/master
```

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout -b mycoolfeature upstream/master
```

short for

```bash
git fetch upstream
git branch mycoolfeature upstream/master
git checkout mycoolfeature
```

---

(yes, there are other ways you can do this cleanly)

↓

--

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
git push origin master
git checkout -b mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git reset --hard upstream/master
git push origin master
git checkout -b mycoolfeature
```

--

Easy, clean, "fool proof"

```bash
git fetch upstream
git checkout -b mycoolfeature upstream/master
```

---

Once you have your branch, you need to do some work.

---

Committing is (technically) a two-step process

---

# Staging

Changes which have been added to git and are ready to commit

---

```bash
git status
```

---

```bash
git add
```

---

```bash
git reset
```

---

```bash
git add
```

---

# .gitignore

---

# Bonus

```bash
git add -p
```

---

```bash
git commit -v
```

---

```bash
git commit -a -v
```

---

```bash
git commit -a -m <message>
```

↓

--

Get in the habit of avoiding `-m`, it will make your commit messages better

--

```bash
export EDITOR=vim
```

--

`-v` is your friend!

---

# The anatomy of a git commit message

---

```
This is an executive summary (<52 characters)

You can put more information down here (after a double newline)
It can be as long or as short as needed.
You can put references to issues, documentation, etc.
Write paragraphs! Poetry! Short novels!

If you only have one commit in your PR, Github will use your commit message to
fill the title and description of your PR.
```

---

# Verbage

```
Add that totally cool feature
```

vs

```
Added that totally cool feature
```

vs

```
Adds that totally cool feature
```

---

It doesn't really matter.

---

# Pushing your work

---

```bash
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

---

Always specify remote and branch!

Don't rely on your tracking branches being set up correctly.

---

# Opening a PR

---

# Reviewing a PR

---

You can set up protected branches to force PRs and reviews

---

# Conflicts!

---

Rebase is (sometimes) your friend

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
git push -f origin mycoolfeature  # Dangerous!
```

---

Merges are fine too. (Unless they're not)

---

```bash
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
# Resolve conflicts
# Commit resolution
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

Note that you don't have to use `-f` if you merge, which is an advantage

---

# Bonus Stuff

--

```
git rebase -i
```

--

Deleting branches

--

```bash
git push origin mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git push origin mycoolfeature:mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git push origin :mycoolfeature
git branch -d mycoolfeature
```

--

```bash
git branch -D mycoolfeature  # Dangerous!
```

--

# reflog

---

# Questions?

Colton Myers (@cmyers, [@basepi](https://github.com/basepi))

https://github.com/basepi/dotfiles

https://git-scm.com/book

---

# The End

Colton Myers (@cmyers, [@basepi](https://github.com/basepi))

https://github.com/basepi/dotfiles

https://git-scm.com/book
